What is HTTP? Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. It is a way of how webpages communicate with each other
What is a URL? Uniform Resource Locator. It is a method of locating a resources which can lead to a web address
What is DNS? Domian Naming System. A way of naming a webpage so that we can search for it on the web instead of having IP address to type in
What is a query string? Allows you to type in key value pairs which becomes a string of letters or numbers, which becomes the query value on a search input on a webpage
What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different? GET allows you to find information on a webpage without changing it. Post allows you to change something on the webpage like in a post. HTTP and HTTPS HTTP is a way of communication to the web, but not secure HTTPS is secure.
Both a protocols.
What is an HTTP request? It gets the version of the HTTP protocol to get HTML code of the webpage
What is an HTTP response? Sending back information of files to the webpage. A statues code, 200 (found), 404 (not found), 301 (moved) etc.
What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.
The name, language, date, etc. of the browser you are on. A request header is the server-host name, cookies, information that is chached to the website, etc.
Response headers are the content type (post, vidoe, picture, js, etc.) When the content was modified, setting cookie information, etc.
What are the processes that happen when you type “http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?
You type a URL and it gets turned into a IP address. You requst infromation to the server so that you can get all the cookies, data, and information
you last used on the server (if you did). The server responseds with a code, 200 means it received all the information proparlly and that the website is there.
The browser gets all DOM information to display to the computer screen. The browser asks for those code, or content needed and gets the proper response. The browser
actually displayes to information on the screen for the user. The URL has a protocol, hostname, port, resource, and query.